you have a lot of options for wall decor
probably more than you've ever thought
of I want to share some of my favorites
with you hopefully they will inspire
some new wall decor ideas for your space
in addition to the short list of ideas
I'm gonna show here I'm including a
complete checklist of wall decor ideas
in the lesson notes so whenever you feel
stuck with a wall decor choice refer to
that checklist to spark some new ideas
it's organized by focal point filler and
functional wall decor one of my all-time
favorites is family photos whether
they're framed printed on canvas or
arranged in a gallery wall I read
somewhere years ago that it's healthy
and important for kids to be surrounded
by pictures depicting the important
relationships in their lives
and ever since I've used that as an
excuse to load up unhappy family photos
around the house if you want to use
family photos but do something a little
more artistic check out the water log
app on the iPhone there's probably
something similar for Android phones as
well the point is you can turn any photo
into a watercolor painting then you can
have them printed and framed for your
wall decor when you need to fill a lot
of wall space but just can't afford a
large piece of art consider turning to
the calendar section in your book store
calendars are pretty inexpensive
especially if you buy them after the
start of the new year and they have at
least 12 pictures usually related to the
same theme and the best part is you can
find calendars for every interest
imaginable this was always a favorite
recommendation of mine for room
makeovers with a tiny budget and a lot
of wall to fill you can frame the
individual pictures and create a set of
art keep in mind that to keep framing
costs down you need to stick with
standard size frames and mats that you
can purchase off the shelf some
calendars are odd shapes and sizes
check how big the pictures are and make
sure you can fit them in a standard size
frame or trim them to fit standard size
frames if you have frames but nothing to
put in them try fabric or decorative
paper this is a great thing to do with
leftover fabric from another project
purchase decorative paper from a craft
or a stationery store and it comes in
large poster size sheets a wall full of
just frames an art can start to look
flat fast so don't forget to use some 3d
elements on your wall something with a
little more depth and dimension things
like wall sconces plaques faux taxidermy
wreaths wall vases and even bunting or
banners can add a little extra something
one of my personal favorites is the
ship's Bell hanging by the fridge in our
kitchen we use it as a dinner bell for
frames and artwork you can give them a
little extra pop to help them jump out
from the wall you don't want to do this
on every piece but in the right place it
can be a lot of fun I initially tried
this idea with gold paper on the edge of
the DIY silhouette or in our dining room
I've also used paint fabric decorative
tape to create eye-catching edges this
works best when you naturally see the
edge of the piece hanging on the wall
meaning you see it from the side
sometimes like in a hallway stairwell or
maybe when peering in from another room
I also believe that every room needs a
mirror depending on your style you may
prefer more than one mirror but for me
the right amount is one per room every
room could benefit from multiplied light
a mirror can reflect natural or
artificial light back into a room so
even if the mirror is purely decorative
it's serving a secondary function while
many mirrors tend toward that feminine
glamorous side because of their shimmery
nature there are definitely some
masculine options as well in my
sons room I hung a shield-shaped mirror
in the nursery I hung a convex mirror
that allowed me to see my little guy
sleeping in his crib while I was
standing in the doorway whenever someone
is looking for wall decor ideas in a
room without a mirror a mirror is the
first thing I suggest mirrors are also
great problem solvers we used a set of
three mirrors in our home gym their
primary purpose is to allow us to see
our form when we're working out but they
have an added benefit of making the gym
look bigger and they add a little
architecture to this windowless room
mirrors can also be fanciful and fun I
hung a trio of round DIY mirrors in the
play room which is another windowless
space and they just became this fun way
to mimic the look of portholes in a
pirate themed room the last idea that I
think everyone can use is letters use
letters to personalize your space and
give your wall decor some extra
dimension I use letters in a lot of my
spaces because I love typography in my
boys rooms I spelled out their names in
my oldest son's room we made the foes
inked letters you see on the bottom
right for above his bed in my youngest
son's room I just cut out letters from
decorative paper and hung them from
twine with mini clothespins I also love
sneaking a monogram into every gallery
wall it's a great way to break up all
the Boxee nests of the frames large or
small letters also make great leaners
for picture ledges Mantle's and shelves
this has been a preview of the choosing
your perfect wall decor class learn more
about this class and others at WWF
decorating calm